♪♪
Baymax, you can't just go around
giving foot massages.
Especially
to Professor Granville.
I was treating her
metatarsal inflammation.
What's with the decorations?
They're for Rivalry Week!
Feel the school pride, Hiro.
-Feel it all over you.
-Oh, okay.
What is Rivalry Week?
Ah, good question, Baymax.
Rivalry Week is the week
where...
we take on our rivals.
-We have rivals?
-Yeah!
The San Fransokyo
Art Institute!
SFAI?
What do we have
against SFAI?
Oh, I don't know,
only everything.
It's the classic clash
of ideals: objective
versus subjective.
Rational versus emotional.
Our superior school mascot,
me, versus their terrible one,
Sabatini the Sea Snail!
It's a tradition.
Every year we play pranks
on each other.
What kind of pranks?
They always paint
our dining hall.
Last year they turned it
into a zombie clown circus.
(shudder)
I could not eat there
for weeks.
While we use
our sciencing skills,
of which I have none,
to steal their
Lenore Shimamoto statue!
Yeah. We once got it
using a flock
of genetically
engineered pigeons.
That was pretty cool.
Nerd-school mischief?
I'm in.
We are gonna plan
the ultimate statue grab!
Wait, hold on.
Where's Honey Lemon?
Excellent work, Honey Lemon.
I truly think you're SFAI's
most gifted new student.
(giggles)
Baymax:
Hello, I am Baymax.
(theme music playing)
♪ Whoa-oh ♪
♪ Whoa-oh, whoa-oh ♪
Are you sure
I can't convince you
to become
a full-time student here?
I'd love to, but I can't.
Art is just a secret hobby
for me.
I-- I mean a secret.
I mean-- I mean a hobby.
Well, hobby or not,
Miss Lemon, your work
is going up in the Fine Arts
Department gallery.
Oh my gosh!
I'm so honored.
And now we step
into the private residence
of renowned artist
and SFAI founder,
Lenore Shimamoto!
-The restoration is finished?
-Today's the grand opening!
But that's 27 days early!
I know!
I was so moved that I wept!
Then I mixed my tears
with ink and wrote a poem
about my feelings.
Read it later.
Okay.
Remember, folks...
no touching and absolutely
no flash photography.
Where are you hiding?
-(thump)
-Aah!
(glasses breaking)
Ah!
And we're moving.
(video game beeps)
Great.
So we hit SFAI tonight.
Tonight?
You're taking the Shimamoto
statue tonight tonight?
We get them
before they get us.
But do we really need
to steal the statue?
I mean, it's been done.
-Right?
-Well, yeah,
but it's tradition.
Who are we
to mess with tradition?
Back me up here, Baymax.
Rivalry Week
began in 1916.
-Students used
a catapult and--
-(door opens)
That is why covalent bonds
share electron pairs!
Super interesting, heh.
Let me guess.
Instead of studying,
you're planning
the statue grab.
Well, it's not going to happen.
-Whew.
-Without my approval,
which you now have.
Tonight, art
will feel the wrath of science!
You two, meet me
at the dining hall
in one hour.
You're going to help me
guard it.
(gulp)
(gasp)
(Hiro grunting)
Guys!
We can just use the door,
since it's open.
Which is how I found it.
So lucky, right?
Baymax:
This route will be easier.
-I'm stuck.
-(grunting)
Thank you.
Fred:
I have mixed feelings
right now.
Guarding the dining hall
is important,
but I was lookin' forward
to that heist.
I just have one feeling. Fear.
-Granville scares me.
-Granville: Good.
(Fred and Wasabi scream)
Fear keeps you sharp.
Suit up!
We've got work to do.
(laughs)
Oh, yes!
Wasabi!
We're gonna be camo twins!
This is a whole new side
of Granville.
A very disturbing side.
Um, do we
have to go through
the Fine Arts building?
This is the best route
to take if we wanna avoid
campus security.
Also, you can enjoy
the student art exhibits
on display.
Student... exhibits?
Your work
is going up in the Fine Arts
Department gallery...
(voice slowed down)
Miss Lemon!
-(gasp)
-Look, if you'd rather
wait here...
No! I mean...
I'm here to help!
I love being helpful!
The shift in both cadence
and pitch of your speech
-indicate--
-How excited I am
about helping!
Uh, sure.
(gasp)
Oh, yes, gettin' a good
stretch in.
Oh!
(objects hitting canvas)
Modern art.
So weird, right?
Modern art is weird.
And messy.
You two will be guarding
the north side
of the dining hall.
(gasp) Whistles?
Oh-ho-ho, nobody's trusted me
with a whistle in years.
(blowing whistle)
One toot means
"I need assistance."
Two toots means
"I've apprehended
an intruder."
Three means,
"I've been captured."
-Four means--
-How many signals
are there?
-Twenty-two.
-Yeah, I'm gonna need
to take notes--
You won't have time
to consult notes
in the heat of battle!
Don't worry,
I have a photographic, uh...
ahh, what's the word
for the thing in your head
that remembers stuff?
Oh, it's right there.
-It's right there!
-Memory.
Uh, no, but it sounds
like that.
I'm counting on you, Wasabi.
(gulp)
Got it.
(crickets chirping)
Keep watch.
We should be ready
to tunnel the statue out
in no time.
So, this is your first time
on SFAI campus, too, right?
Right?
Because it's definitely mine.
Are you acting weird tonight
because you don't want anyone
to know you take classes here?
Wait!
You knew? How?
You sleeptalk.
Ssh!
I'm taking art classes
at SFAI.
It's a secret.
(snoring)
Go Go, Go Go...
Don't tell anyone, okay?
It's a secret.
(snoring)
Hey! Who's there?
-Go Go:
We gotta go.
-We're not done yet!
Security guard:
I heard somethin' over here!
We'll finish later.
What do we do now?
I'm hiding
in Lenore Shimamoto's house.
This is so exciting!
Shh!
Be excited quieter!
(sigh)
Oops.
-I didn't mean to--
-(clanking sound)
Uhh... what's going on?
Oh, no.
(gasp)
What is this place?
You mean, besides creepy?
It appears to be a science lab.
(whispers)
You guys!
I think this lab
belonged to Lenore Shimamoto!
I thought she was an artist.
Cool.
She was an artist.
With a secret lab.
Someone who was good
at art... and science?
Wow... what are the odds?
These books are all elements.
And they're placed in order
of the Periodic Table from 1906.
But Gallium is supposed to go
before Germanium.
-(click)
-(gasp)
It was an accident.
This is Lenore Shimamoto's
personal journal!
-(radio chatter)
-What are you doin'
down there?
We're exploring a secret lab.
You know, Wasabi,
if you would like me
to hold your whistle,
I mean, I'd be happy to.
Granville revoked
your whistle privileges.
If you even touch a whistle,
I am to signal her
with 23 toots.
But I want it!
(screams)
Question:
What good is camouflage
in front of a wall?
-Well, they're very soft
on the skin--
-None!
Hit the bushes!
Okay, we'll--
where'd she go?
Granville's voice:
I'm nowhere.
(whispers)
Yet... everywhere!
Breaking... trespassing
SFIT pranksters
discover Lenore Shimamoto's
secret lab.
An artist with a lab.
What's that about?
(beeps)
(beeping)
(yawn)
Wow, I'm super tired.
Gonna dive into bed.
And dive into the old book
you swiped from the lab?
So? Are we gonna
read it or what?
April 19th, 1905.
My friends in the arts
know nothing about...
Lenore Shimamoto:
...my scientific endeavors.
They would not understand
what drives me.
I'm not sure
I understand.
Until I can be certain
of success, I've decided it bes
to keep
my scientific work secret.
November 11th, 1905.
While my research
has been fascinating,
my isolation
grows more stifling.
April 3rd, 1906.
I've made
a groundbreaking discovery
too big to hide.
Tomorrow I will show the city..
and change the world!
That's all she wrote.
The rest of the pages
are just... empty!
-That's it?
So she chickened out.
-Maybe... or--
Look at that last date.
It was the day before
the Great Catastrophe.
Maybe all the chaos
ruined her plans, and she never
had the courage to try again.
(sigh)
What if her discovery
really could've changed
the world?
Wow. This is like
an actual mystery.
I know...
and I'm gonna solve it!
Before I return the journal
tomorrow, I have to re-read it.
There's something I'm missing.
(sigh)
(yawn)
How many toots
for snack time?
That wasn't on the list.
Was it?
-(blowing whistle)
-Professor Granville's
tooting at us!
-(whistling stops)
-Was that eight toots?
Or was it
four toots twice?
-(rustling noise)
-What was that?
Relax, it's probably
just a family
of baby deer.
Number one,
I've never seen deer
on campus.
Number two,
why would the entire family
be babies, Fred?
Why?
(both scream)
Fred (yelling):
Sabatini!
Excuse me, Miss?
I'm from the museum.
-Oh! Hi.
-I recognized you
from the news,
and I wanted to talk to you
about the discovery you made.
It was...
it was amazing.
Indeed.
Historians, like myself,
will spend ages
studying everything
in Shimamoto's lab.
If only we could hear
in her own words
why she hid her scientific work
from the world.
Well, actually, you can.
Shimamoto's journal.
I took it last night.
I swear I was gonna
return it.
It's just... she's my idol.
I have to confess,
if I'd been in your shoes...
I might've done
the same thing.
Wasabi:
I'm sorry, Professor Granville.
The artists got to us
before we could get
to our whistles!
And they wouldn't
give us snacks!
Gentlemen,
this isn't your fault.
It's mine.
-Really?
-A scientist must always
acknowledge her own failings.
I did not
prepare you adequately.
That's very reasonable of you.
I won't make that mistake again.
We start training for next year
at six a.m. tomorrow!
-Great.
-Until then,
stew in your failure.
Hey, Wasabi, do you think
she's going to get stuff
to cut us down?
Wasabi:
Pretty sure she's not.
Clerk:
Next.
-Next.
-Hi. Can you tell me
where the Shimamoto journal
is being displayed?
No idea what
you're talkin' about. Next.
Oh.
Your associate,
Mr. Herman Ekabo,
should've brought it in
this morning?
No one works here
named Herman Ekabo.
(buzzing)
Ugh!
I can't believe I let a stranger
steal a priceless treasure!
-(buzzing continues)
-Uh, wrong ID.
I... don't have
my SFIT ID.
I'll do it.
Wait-- I don't have
a student ID, either.
But I'll just use
my mascot ID!
And... there's no such thing.
I don't have my SFIT ID
because I left it
in the journal
last night!
Which means
we can track the journal
using your ID's RFID chip!
Which means let's move!
So we're not having lunch.
Baymax:
RFID scan indicates
that Honey Lemon's ID
is inside this building.
Why does it always
have to be abandoned
warehouses?
It's part of Bad Guy 101.
Right next
to use fake credentials
to steal things.
Tell me he did not
have a fake beard.
'Cause that's the trifecta.
Trifecta!
Did you pick up
anything else, Baymax?
Yes, there is one person inside.
His body temperature
is low normal.
It's him!
And he's got the journal!
Welcome, Big Hero 6.
I'd hoped you'd
locate me more quickly.
Disappointing.
Mr. Ekabo,
or whoever you are,
you stole
Shimamoto's journal.
Wrong.
I only claimed that which
belongs with the one
who understands its true worth.
I understand.
I think.
-Please.
-Hey, uh... who are you?
I need one more minute.
Which is perfect.
Because that's all the time
you have.
Good luck!
Whoa!
This is just like
my room!
Except for that thing.
Nice try, mystery villain.
Wasabi: "The hardest thing
to face is yourself."
What does it mean?
Well, this is creepy.
Baymax:
It is a replica
of your bedroom.
-Why is that creepy?
-I'll explain later.
"Find the whole solution
to your problem"?
It looks just like
Shimamoto's lab.
Go Go: "Don't ignore
the pressing from the wall."
That doesn't sound good.
Maybe it's not so bad.
(beeping)
Never mind.
It's bad.
(grunts)
Both:
Ah!
(beeping)
Oh, face yourself!
Got it.
Still don't get it.
But that's cool.
Let's do this!
-Oh, man!
-Water. Creepy.
Baymax,
break through the wall!
Oh, come on, really?
(grunting)
Isn't working!
It's like he is me!
Wait!
What if I'm actually
the robot clone?
And I don't know it!
Oh-ho-ho, I'm freakin'
myself out right now, Wasabi!
Guys?
Any ideas?
(both grunting)
It's pressing from the wall!
Yeah, we got that part.
No, it's a play on words.
The plant
pressing from the wall.
Guys!
The words on the wall...
they all have a double meaning!
"Find the whole solution."
Wait a minute.
No, I'm pretty sure
ours just has one meaning!
This is hard!
Honey Lemon:
If facing yourself
is the hardest thing,
do something else!
Both:
Switch!
(cheering)
-All right!
-Oh, yeah!
I have an idea.
Hope I'm right.
(deep inhale)
It was a riddle.
Get it?
-No.
-A play on words!
The "whole solution"
was a hole in the floor.
Y-- You know?
No.
Yeah, we'll talk later.
Let's go.
Oh. Hominem!
Clever and creative.
Now I'm mildly impressed.
Why are you doing this?
Let's call that
one more riddle to solve.
Perhaps for next time.
(snaps fingers)
Big Hero 6:
Ohh!
Where'd he go?
Wasabi:
He's gone!
Who was that guy?
Hmm, I think
I'll call him Puzzle Master.
Ooh!
Or what about Glowface?
Hey!
If he didn't supervillain
name himself,
I call dibs, okay?
Why go through
all that trouble
for the journal
and then leave it?
I'm just relieved
we got it back.
This is going straight
to the museum!
Obake.
I'm sorry
I didn't tell you guys
that I'm an art student.
It's okay.
Also, we knew.
You all knew?
Why didn't you say anything?
We figured you were
keeping it a secret
for a reason.
And that you'd tell us
in your own time.
We're your friends,
Honey Lemon.
We accept all of you.
Thanks.
I love chemistry,
but I think
I love art just as much.
So, even though I know
you see the artists
at this school
as the enemy,
I'm sticking with it.
-Actually, we don't
really hate SFAI.
-Except for Sabatini.
I loathe him!
It's his empty,
soulless eyes.
He doesn't mean
any of the spirit
he conveys.
Honestly, the trash talk
just made the statue grab
more fun.
Take that, Sabatini!
(beeping)
No. No... no, no.
Hmm...
(beeping)
Now, where to begin?
(theme music playing)